.TH ATEST  1

.SH NAME
atest \- Decode AX.25 frames from an audio file.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B atest  
[ \fIoptions\fR ] 
.I wav-file-in
.RS
.P
\fIwav-file-in\fR is a WAV format audio file.
.P
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBatest\fR is a test application which decodes AX.25 frames from an audio recording.  This provides an easy way to test Dire Wolf decoding performance much quicker than normal real-time. 



.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI  "-B " "n"
Bits / second for data.  Proper modem selected for 300, 1200, 9600.
300 baud uses 1600/1800 Hz AFSK.
1200 (default) baud uses 1200/2200 Hz AFSK.
9600 baud uses K9NG/G2RUH standard.

.TP
.BI  "-D " "n"
Divide audio sample rate by n.

.TP
.BI  "-F " "n"
Amount of effort to try fixing frames with an invalid CRC.
0 (default) = consider only correct frames.
1 = Try to fix only a single bit.
more = Try modifying more bits to get a good CRC.

.TP
.BI  "-P " "m"
Select the demodulator type such as A, B, C, D (default for 300 baud), E (default for 1200 baud), F, A+, B+, C+, D+, E+, F+.



.SH EXAMPLES
.P
.PD 0
.B gen_packets -o test1.wav
.P
.B atest test1.wav 
.PD
.P
.PD 0
.B gen_packets -B 300 -o test3.wav
.P
.B atest -B 300 test3.wav 
.PD
.P
.PD 0
.B gen_packets -B 9600 -o test9.wav
.P
.B atest  -B 9600 test9.wav 
.PD
.P
.RS
This generates and decodes 3 test files with 1200, 300, and 9600 bits per second.
.RE
.P
.PD 0
.B atest 02_Track_2.wav
.P
.B atest -P C+ 02_Track_2.wav
.P
.B atest -F 1 02_Track_2.wav
.P
.B atest -P C+ -F 1 02_Track_2.wav
.PD
.P
.RS
Try different combinations of options to find the best decoding performance.
.RE
.P

.SH SEE ALSO
More detailed information is in the pdf files in /usr/local/share/doc/direwolf, or possibly /usr/share/doc/direwolf, depending on installation location.

Applications in this package: aclients, atest, decode_aprs, direwolf, gen_packets, kissutil, ll2utm, log2gpx, text2tt, tt2text, utm2ll

