.TH DIREWOLF 1

.SH NAME
direwolf \- Soundcard TNC for packet radio.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B direwolf 
[ \fIoptions\fR ]
[ \- | \fBudp:\fR9999 ]
.P
The first audio channel can be streamed thru stdin or a UDP port.  This is typically used with an SDR receiver.


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdirewolf\fR  is a software "soundcard" modem/TNC and APRS encoder/decoder.   
It can be used stand-alone to receive APRS messages, as a digipeater, 
APRStt gateway, or Internet Gateway (IGate).    
It can also be used as a virtual TNC for other applications such as 
APRSIS32, UI-View32, Xastir, APRS-TW, YAAC, UISS, Linux AX25, SARTrack, 
RMS Express, and many others. 


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-c " "file"
Read configuration file from specified location rather than the default locations.

.TP
.BI "-l " "dir"
Generate log files in specified directory.  Use "." for current directory.

.TP
.BI "-r " "n"
Audio sample rate per second for first channel.  Default 44100.

.TP
.BI "-n " "n"
Number of audio channels for first device.  1 or 2.  Default 1.

.TP
.BI "-b " "n"
Audio sample size for first channel.  8 or 16.  Default 16.

.TP
.BI "-B " "n"
Data rate in bits/sec for first channel.  Standard values are 300, 1200, 9600.
.PD 0
.RS 
.RS
If < 600, tones are set to 1600 & 1800.
.P
If > 2400, K9NG/G3RUH scrambling is used.
.P
Otherwise, AFSK tones are set to 1200 & 2200.
.RE
.RE
.PD

.TP
.BI "-D " "n"
Divide audio sample by n for first channel.

.TP
.BI "-d " "x"
Debug options.  Specify one or more of the following in place of x.
.PD 0
.RS
.RS
a = AGWPE network protocol client.
.P
k = KISS serial port client.
.P
n = Network KISS client.
.P
u = Display non-ASCII text in hexadecimal.
.P
p = Packet dump in hexadecimal.
.P
g = GPS interface.
.P
t = Tracker beacon.
.P
o = Output controls such as PTT and DCD.
.P
i = IGate
.P
h = Hamlib verbose level.  Repeat for more.
.RE
.RE
.PD

.TP
.BI "-q " "x"
Quiet (suppress output). Specify one or more of the following in place of x.
.PD 0
.RS
.RS
h = Heard line with the audio level.
.P
d = Decoding of APRS packets.
.RE
.RE
.PD

.TP
.BI "-t " "n"
Text colors.  1=normal, 0=disabled.

.TP
.B "-p " 
Enable pseudo terminal for KISS protocol.

.TP
.B "-x " 
Send Xmit level calibration tones.

.TP
.B "-U " 
Print UTF-8 test string and exit.

.TP
.B "-S " 
Print Symbol tables and exit.

.TP
.BI "-a " "n"
Report audio device statistics each n seconds.


.SH EXAMPLES
gqrx (2.3 and later) has the ability to send streaming audio through a UDP socket to another application for further processing. 
direwolf can listen over a UDP port with options like this:
.RS
.P
direwolf -n 1 -r 48000 -b 16 udp:7355
.RE
.P
Other SDR applications might produce audio on stdout so it is convenient to pipe into the next application.  In this example, the final "-" means read from stdin.
.RS
.P
rtl_fm -f 144.39M -o 4 - | direwolf -n 1 -r 24000 -b 16 -
.RE


.SH SEE ALSO
More detailed information is in the pdf files in /usr/local/share/doc/direwolf, or possibly /usr/share/doc/direwolf, depending on installation location.

Applications in this package: aclients, atest, decode_aprs, direwolf, gen_packets, ll2utm, log2gpx, text2tt, tt2text, utm2ll

