.TH GEN_PACKETS  1

.SH NAME
gen_packets \- Generate audio file for AX.25 frames.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gen_packets -o 
.I wav-file-out 
[ \fIoptions\fR ] [ \fItext-file\fR | - ]
.RS
.P
\fIwav-file-out\fR is the result.  The -o option is required.
.P
\fItext-file\fR may contain AX.25 packets in the standard monitoring format.  Use "-" to read from stdin.  If not specified, a default builtin message will be used.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgen_packets\fR is a test application which converts text to AX.25 audio for testing packet decoders.

It is very flexible allowing a wide range of audio sample rates, data speeds, and AFSK tones.  It will even generate the scrambled signals commonly used for 9600 baud operation.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI  "-a " "n"
Signal amplitude in range of 0 - 200%.  Default 50.  Note that 100% is corresponds to signal peaks of +/- 16383 so we have plenty of headroom to avoid saturation.

.TP
.BI  "-b " "n"
Bits / second for data.  Default is 1200.

.TP
.BI  "-B " "n"
Bits / second for data.  Proper modem selected for 300, 1200, 9600.

.TP
.BI  "-g"
Scrambled baseband rather than AFSK.

.TP
.BI  "-m " "n"
Mark frequency.  Default is 1200.

.TP
.BI  "-s " "n"
Space frequency.  Default is 2200.

.TP
.BI  "-r " "n"
Audio sample Rate.  Default is 44100.

.TP
.BI  "-n " "n"
Generate specified number of frames with increasing noise.  (For built-in message only.)

.TP
.BI  "-o " "file"
Send output to .wav file.

.TP
.B  "-8"
8 bit audio rather than 16.

.TP
.B  "-2"
2 channels of audio rather than 1.


.SH EXAMPLES
.P
.B gen_packets -o x.wav
.P
.RS
With all defaults, a built-in test message is generated
with standard Bell 202 tones used for packet radio on ordinary
VHF FM transceivers.
.RE
.P
.B gen_packets -o x.wav -g -b 9600
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.B gen_packets -o x.wav -B 9600
.P
.RS
Both of these are equivalent.  "-B 9600" automatically selects scrambled baseband rather than AFSK.
.RE
.P
.B gen_packets -o x.wav -m 1600 -s 1800 -b 300
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.B gen_packets -o x.wav -B 300
.P
.RS
Both of these generate 200 Hz shift, 300 baud, suitable for HF SSB transceiver.
.RE
.P
.B echo -n 'WB2OSZ>WORLD:Hello, world!' | gen_packets -a 25 -o x.wav -
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.B atest x.wav
.P
.RS
Read message from stdin and put quarter volume sound into the file x.wav.  Decode the sound file.
.RE
.P

.SH SEE ALSO
More detailed information is in the pdf files in /usr/local/share/doc/direwolf, or possibly /usr/share/doc/direwolf, depending on installation location.

Applications in this package: aclients, atest, decode_aprs, direwolf, gen_packets, ll2utm, log2gpx, text2tt, tt2text, utm2ll

