.TH TEXT2TT 1

.SH NAME
text2tt \- Convert text to Touch Tone representation 


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B text2tt 
.I text ... 
.P


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtext2tt\fR  converts text to the Touch Tone sequence used by APRStt.  There are two types 
of encoding:
.RS
.HP 
.BR "Multi-Press"  " - Used for comments."
.RS
.P
Letters are represented by one or more presses of the same key depending on their order listed on the button.  e.g.  Press 5 key once for J, twice for K, thrice for L.
.P
To specify a digit use the number of letters listed on the button plus one.  e.g.  Press 5 key four times to get digit 5.  When two characters in a row use the same key, use the "A" key as a separator.
.RE
.P
.BR "Two-Key"  " - Used for callsigns."
.RS
.P
Digits are represented by a single key press.
.P
Letters (or space) are represented by the corresponding key followed by A, B, C, or D depending on the order of the letter in the order listed.
.RE
.RE
.P
This application will convert using both methods.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
None.


.SH EXAMPLES
.P
.B text2tt abcdefg 0123
.P
.PD 0
.P
Push buttons for multi-press method:
.P
"2A22A2223A33A33340A00122223333"
.P
Push buttons for two-key method:
.P
"2A2B2C3A3B3C4A0A0123"
.PD
.P


.SH SEE ALSO
More detailed information is in the pdf files in /usr/local/share/doc/direwolf, or possibly /usr/share/doc/direwolf, depending on installation location.

Applications in this package: aclients, atest, decode_aprs, direwolf, gen_packets, kissutil, ll2utm, log2gpx, text2tt, tt2text, utm2ll

