.TH ATEST  1

.SH NAME
atest \- Decode AX.25 frames from an audio file.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B atest  
[ \fIoptions\fR ] 
.I wav-file-in
.RS
.P
\fIwav-file-in\fR is a WAV format audio file.
.P
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBatest\fR is a test application which decodes AX.25 frames from an audio recording.  This provides an easy way to test Dire Wolf decoding performance much quicker than normal real-time. 



.SH OPTIONS


.TP
.BI "-B " "n"
Data rate in bits/sec.  Standard values are 300, 1200, 2400, 4800, 9600.
.PD 0
.RS
.RS
300 bps defaults to AFSK tones of 1600 & 1800.
.P
1200 bps uses AFSK tones of 1200 & 2200.
.P
2400 bps uses QPSK based on V.26 standard.
.P
4800 bps uses 8PSK based on V.27 standard.
.P
9600 bps and up uses K9NG/G3RUH standard.
.P
AIS for ship Automatic Identification System.
.P
EAS for Emergency Alert System (EAS) Specific Area Message Encoding (SAME).
.RE
.RE
.PD

.TP
.BI "-g " 
Force G3RUH modem regardless of data rate.

.TP
.BI "-j " 
2400 bps QPSK compatible with Dire Wolf <= 1.5.

.TP
.BI "-J " 
2400 bps QPSK compatible with MFJ-2400.

.TP
.BI  "-D " "n"
Divide audio sample rate by n.

.TP
.BI  "-h " 
Print frame contents as hexadecimal bytes.

.TP
.BI  "-F " "n"
Amount of effort to try fixing frames with an invalid CRC.
0 (default) = consider only correct frames.
1 = Try to fix only a single bit.
more = Try modifying more bits to get a good CRC.

.TP
.BI  "-L " 
Error if Less than this number decoded.

.TP
.BI  "-G " 
Error if Greater than this number decoded.

.TP
.BI  "-P " "m"
Select the demodulator type such as D (default for 300 bps), E+ (default for 1200 bps), PQRS for 2400 bps, etc.



.SH EXAMPLES
.P
.PD 0
.B gen_packets -o test1.wav
.P
.B atest test1.wav 
.PD
.P
.PD 0
.B gen_packets -B 300 -o test3.wav
.P
.B atest -B 300 test3.wav 
.PD
.P
.PD 0
.B gen_packets -B 9600 -o test9.wav
.P
.B atest  -B 9600 test9.wav 
.PD
.P
.RS
This generates and decodes 3 test files with 1200, 300, and 9600 bits per second.
.RE
.P
.PD 0
.B atest 02_Track_2.wav
.P
.B atest -P E- 02_Track_2.wav
.P
.B atest -F 1 02_Track_2.wav
.P
.B atest -P E- -F 1 02_Track_2.wav
.PD
.P
.RS
Try different combinations of options to compare decoding performance.
.RE
.P

.SH SEE ALSO
More detailed information is in the pdf files in /usr/local/share/doc/direwolf, or possibly /usr/share/doc/direwolf, depending on installation location.

Applications in this package: aclients, atest, cm108, decode_aprs, direwolf, gen_packets, kissutil, ll2utm, log2gpx, text2tt, tt2text, utm2ll

