.TH DIREWOLF 1

.SH NAME
direwolf \- Soundcard TNC for packet radio.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B direwolf 
[ \fIoptions\fR ]
[ \- | \fBudp:\fR9999 ]
.P
The first audio channel can be streamed thru stdin or a UDP port.  This is typically used with an SDR receiver.


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdirewolf\fR  is a software "soundcard" modem/TNC and APRS encoder/decoder.   
It can be used stand-alone to receive APRS messages, as a digipeater, 
APRStt gateway, or Internet Gateway (IGate).    
It can also be used as a virtual TNC for other applications such as 
APRSIS32, UI-View32, Xastir, APRS-TW, YAAC, UISS, Linux AX25, SARTrack, 
RMS Express, and many others. 


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-c " "file"
Read configuration file from specified location rather than the default locations.

.TP
.BI "-l " "logdir"
Generate daily log files in specified directory.  Use "." for current directory.

.TP
.BI "-L " "logfile"
Generate single log file with fixed name.

.TP
.BI "-r " "n"
Audio sample rate per second for first channel.  Default 44100.

.TP
.BI "-n " "n"
Number of audio channels for first device.  1 or 2.  Default 1.

.TP
.BI "-b " "n"
Audio sample size for first channel.  8 or 16.  Default 16.

.TP
.BI "-B " "n"
Data rate in bits/sec for first channel.  Standard values are 300, 1200, 2400, 4800, 9600.
.PD 0
.RS
.RS
300 bps defaults to AFSK tones of 1600 & 1800.
.P
1200 bps uses AFSK tones of 1200 & 2200.
.P
2400 bps uses QPSK based on V.26 standard.
.P
4800 bps uses 8PSK based on V.27 standard.
.P
9600 bps and up uses K9NG/G3RUH standard.
.P
AIS for ship Automatic Identification System.
.P
EAS for Emergency Alert System (EAS) Specific Area Message Encoding (SAME).
.RE
.RE
.PD

.TP
.BI "-g " 
Force G3RUH modem regardless of data rate.

.TP
.BI "-j " 
2400 bps QPSK compatible with Dire Wolf <= 1.5.

.TP
.BI "-J " 
2400 bps QPSK compatible with MFJ-2400.

.TP
.BI "-D " "n"
Divide audio sample by n for first channel.

.TP
.BI "-X " "n"
1 to enable FX.25 transmit.  16, 32, 64 for specific number of check bytes.

.TP
.BI "-I " "n"
Enable IL2P transmit.  n=1 is recommended.  0 uses weaker FEC.

.TP
.BI "-i " "n"
Enable IL2P transmit, inverted polarity.  n=1 is recommended.  0 uses weaker FEC.

.TP
.BI "-d " "x"
Debug options.  Specify one or more of the following in place of x.
.PD 0
.RS
.RS
a = AGWPE network protocol client.
.P
k = KISS serial port client.
.P
n = Network KISS client.
.P
u = Display non-ASCII text in hexadecimal.
.P
p = Packet dump in hexadecimal.
.P
g = GPS interface.
.P
W = Waypoints for position or object reports.
.P
t = Tracker beacon.
.P
o = Output controls such as PTT and DCD.
.P
i = IGate
.P
h = Hamlib verbose level.  Repeat for more.
.P
m = Monitor heard station list.
.P
f = Packet filtering.
.P
x = FX.25 increase verbose level.
.P
d = APRStt (DTMF to APRS object conversion).
.P
2 = IL2P.
.RE
.RE
.PD

.TP
.BI "-q " "x"
Quiet (suppress output). Specify one or more of the following in place of x.
.PD 0
.RS
.RS
h = Heard line with the audio level.
.P
d = Decoding of APRS packets.
.P
x = Silence FX.25 information.
.RE
.RE
.PD

.TP
.BI "-t " "n"
Text colors.  0=disabled. 1=default.  2,3,4,... alternatives.  Use 9 to test compatibility with your terminal.


.TP
.B "-p " 
Enable pseudo terminal for KISS protocol.

.TP
.BI "-x "
Send Xmit level calibration tones.
.PD 0
.RS
.RS
a = Alternating mark/space tones.
.P
m = steady Mark tone (e.g. 1200 Hz)
.P
s = steady Space tone (e.g. 2200 Hz)
.P
p = selence (set Ptt only).
.P
Optionally add a number to specify radio channel.
.RE
.RE
.PD

.TP
.B "-u "
Print UTF-8 test string and exit.

.TP
.B "-S " 
Print Symbol tables and exit.

.TP
.BI "-a " "n"
Report audio device statistics each n seconds.

.TP
.BI "-T " "fmt"
Time stamp format for sent and received frames.

.TP
.BI "-e " "ber"
Receive Bit Error Rate (BER), e.g. 1e-5

.SH EXAMPLES
gqrx (2.3 and later) has the ability to send streaming audio through a UDP socket to another application for further processing. 
direwolf can listen over a UDP port with options like this:
.RS
.P
direwolf \-n 1 \-r 48000 \-b 16 udp:7355
.RE
.P
Other SDR applications might produce audio on stdout so it is convenient to pipe into the next application.  In this example, the final "-" means read from stdin.
.RS
.P
rtl_fm \-f 144.39M \-o 4 \- | direwolf \-n 1 \-r 24000 \-b 16 \-
.RE


.SH SEE ALSO
More detailed information is in the pdf files in /usr/local/share/doc/direwolf, or possibly /usr/share/doc/direwolf, depending on installation location.

Applications in this package: aclients, atest, cm108, decode_aprs, direwolf, gen_packets, kissutil, ll2utm, log2gpx, text2tt, tt2text, utm2ll

