.TH KISSUTIL 1

.SH NAME
kissutil \- KISS TNC troubleshooting and Application Interface.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kissutil 
[ \fIoptions\fR ]



.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkissutil\fR  can be used interactively for troubleshooting a KISS TNC.
It is usable with direwolf and other generic KISS TNCs connected to a serial port.
It can also be used as an application interface where each side places files in a
directory for the other to process.
See User Guide for more details.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-h " "host"
Hostname or IP address for a TCP KISS TNC.  Default is localhost.

.TP
.BI "-p " "port"
A number may be specified for a TCP port other than the default 8001.
If not a number, it is considered to be a serial port name such as /dev/ttyS0 or COM3.

.TP
.BI "-s " "speed"
Speed for serial port. e.g. 9600.

.TP
.BI "-o " "rec-directory"
For each received frame, a new file is created here.
It is expected that some other application will process files in this directory then delete them.

.TP
.BI "-T " "format"
Each received frame will be preceded by a timestamp in the specified format.
See strftime documentation for a description of the format string.
Example:  %H:%M:%S  for current time in hours, minutes, seconds.

.TP
.BI "-f " "xmit-directory"
Files in this directory are transmitted and deleted.
Another application places a file here when it wants something to be transmitted.

.TP
.BI "-v " 
Verbose - Display the KISS frames going to and from the TNC.


.SH SEE ALSO
More detailed information is in the pdf files in /usr/local/share/doc/direwolf, or possibly /usr/share/doc/direwolf, depending on installation location.

Applications in this package: aclients, atest, decode_aprs, direwolf, gen_packets, kissutil, ll2utm, log2gpx, text2tt, tt2text, utm2ll

